Tools for Change:
Yoga for Peace,
'Nadi Suddhi'. '
Nadi Suddhi' means 'to
purify the nadis.'
When speaking of nadis, we will not be talking
about all 72,000 of them,
because
these 72,000 originate from
only two
basic nadis: 'Ida
' and 'Pingala.'
36,000 extend from 'Pingala,' and
another 36,000
extend from 'Ida.'
This is human
energy physiology.
Fundamentally, 'Nadi Suddhi' refers to purifying
'Ida' and 'Pingala' so that the
energy system can function in balance.
Your breath and mental structure are
interconnected. Bringing
balance to your thoughts is an
important step you must take. If you wish to find balance in your
activities, emotions, and
life outcomes, and if you
want to have influence over the lives of others,
'Nadi Suddhi' will play a
significant role. To set the best conditions for
properly learning this practice, I will
give you a few guidelines. Please
turn off your mobile phone or put it on silent. Full
stomach  This program is not suitable if you are in a state of intoxication or immediately after finishing a meal.
Sit with your spine straight and comfortable.
Do not overlap your hands; keep your
palms facing upward.
These conditions can increase your receptiveness and allow you to draw the
maximum benefit from the practice.
This practice is very simple and safe, making it
easy to follow.
Anyone 7 years of age or older
can learn and perform it.
If you wear glasses, please
remove them and set them aside during the yoga practice. Let's look at
how to do 'Nadi Suddhi'
together. Do
not follow along yet.
Fold your legs to
keep your spine comfortable and
close your eyes.
Loosely rest your left hand on the
center of your legs with your
palm
facing upward.
Use only your right hand.
Use your thumb and ring finger, and fold your
middle and index fingers. Straighten your
ring and little fingers and
bring the sides of your fingers together.
Now, block your right nostril with your thumb and
inhale to the left.
Inhale completely and
exhale to the left. In a
similar way,
block your left nostril with your ring finger and inhale to
the right,
then exhale through the right nostril.
Again, block the right and
open the left to inhale and exhale.
Continue doing this.
Focus on your breath.  The most important thing
when doing 'Nadi Shuddhi'
is to fully inhale and fully exhale. Do it
as slowly
and
gently as you can. Do
not create different sounds while inhaling and exhaling. If you remember just one basic thing while
doing this breathing,
'Nadi Shuddhi' will
occur naturally.
Always change direction after exhaling. That is,
after inhaling,
exhale through the nostril on the same side. Continue
'Nadi Shuddhi' for
at least 4 minutes. Let me give you
a few points to note.
Do not rest your left hand on your thigh; instead,
place it comfortably in the center of your leg.
In other words,
use only your thumb and ring finger with your right hand.
Extend your ring and little fingers so they
touch each other.
Fold your index and middle fingers. If you cannot straighten your
ring and little fingers,
extend them as much as you can. Sometimes people
lower their heads or
tilt them to one side. Keep your head upright so that your face does
not unconsciously tilt to one side. If you do
this,
your system will
find balance very quickly.
Do not press too hard on the area below the nostrils. If you gently press with your thumb slightly below where the bone
of the right nostril
ends...
Completely block your nostrils so that
no air leaks out.
Whether you breathe shallowly or normally,
do not hold your breath.
Breathe in
completely and breathe out
completely.
Now, let's try 'Nadi Shuddhi'
together. Sit with your
legs comfortably
folded.
Keep your spine upright and relaxed. If you cannot sit on
the floor,
sit on a chair and
cross your ankles. Place your
left hand loosely and comfortably on your leg with your palm
facing up.
Use only your right hand. Use your
thumb and ring finger, and
fold your index and middle fingers. Extend your
ring and
little fingers and
bring their sides together.
Close your eyes.
Now, block your right nostril with your thumb and
close your eyes.
Inhale through your left nostril.
Close your eyes. Once you have
fully inhaled,
close your eyes.
Exhale through the nostril on the same side.
Close your eyes.
Now,
block your left nostril with your ring finger and close your
eyes.
Open your right nostril and inhale.
Close your eyes.
Then
exhale to the same side.
Close your eyes.
Again, block the right side and
open the left to inhale.
Close your eyes.
Then exhale.
This breath
Continue until told to stop.
Close your eyes.
Focus on your breath.
Close your eyes. Breathe in
completely and
breathe out completely. Close your eyes.
Do it as slowly and quietly as you can.
Close your eyes.
Close your eyes. Keep your
spine
relaxed but straight, and
close your eyes.
Close your eyes. Keep your head
upright.
Close your eyes.
Continue to focus on your breath.
End your breath by exhaling to the left.
Close your eyes.
Slowly open your eyes.
Peace is
not the ultimate goal of life.
Peace is the
most fundamental necessity in life.
If you make peace the ultimate goal of life, you will be able to rest peacefully
only in death.